#summary Getting started, mandatory fields, XML description, gallery.xml
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

After you start downloader you have to fill two mandatory fields:

  # URL of Gallery's XML description (don't forget leading 'http://'). If the entered URL is wrong, it will be highlighted with red color. You can find the reason pointing on the text field. The black text color is a sign of a (more or less) proper URL. 
  # Path to your local directory, where downloaded pictures will be stored in

Since version 0.2 you can download images protected by [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication basic access authentication]. Just check the flag 'Protected gallery' and enter your credentials.

After you entered all required parameters you can click on download button.

= How to find XML address =

Usually you will find an URL to desired XML description opening the HTML source code of gallery's web page. Sooner or later anywhere you will see something like

{{{
	<div id="flashcontent">SimpleViewer requires Adobe Flash. <a href="http://www.macromedia.com/go/getflashplayer/">Get Adobe Flash.</a> If you have Flash installed, <a href="index.html?detectflash=false">click to view gallery</a>.</div>	
	<script type="text/javascript">
		var fo = new SWFObject("viewer.swf", "viewer", "100%", "100%", "7", "#333333");	
		fo.addVariable("preloaderColor", "0xffffff");
		fo.addVariable("xmlDataPath", "gallery.xml");	
		fo.addVariable( "langOpenImage", "Bild in neuem Fenster öffnen" );
		fo.addVariable("langAbout", "Info");	
		fo.write("flashcontent");	
	</script>	
}}}

This snippet can be also placed in some HTML frame or included JavaScript. According to its URL and path of *xmlDataPath* variable you will build your address.

== Example ==

Assume you found an interesting gallery under http://www.topgallery.eu/heide/. Viewing the source code of its page you see the above mentioned script block. That means desired XML description of a gallery is stored under http://www.topgallery.eu/heide/gallery.xml.

= Known bugs and open features =

Sadly there is no official XML schema (XSD or DTD) published for !SimpleViewer, also there are several versions of formats, used for gallery's description. Version 1.9 of !SimpleViewer is definitely supported, another ones might work properly or maybe not.

If there will be interested parties (and some free time) I will make the downloader more universal.